Every spring
the eastern monarch butterfly
begins a migration
that rivals that of some birds and whales.
How does such a delicate insect
make such a long trip?
Monarchs are strong, efficient flyers
thanks to their wing shape
and the way they flap them.
They may also glide
on air currents for an extra boost.
In spring, millions of monarch butterflies
leave central Mexico.
They fly northeast
for several hundred miles,
where they reach
the end of their lifespan.
Amazingly, the end of their life
doesn’t mean the end of the journey.
Before they die, they lay eggs.
The next generation hatches, matures,
and keeps flying north again and again
until up to four generations later
when the great
and great-great grandchildren
of the original monarchs
occupy their summer home
mostly throughout
the northeastern United States.
They perform this multigenerational relay
with no training, no map,
and a brain no larger than the head of a pin.
Amazingly, one thing they do have is
a solar compass.
It tells them what direction to fly
relative to the sun
even when it’s behind clouds.
A clock in their antennae
adjusts their heading
as the sun moves across the sky.
Monarchs also have an annual clock
that tells them when to begin their journey
back to Mexico
before the weather turns too cold.
But the trip home is not so easy.
They’ll need more than efficient flying
and good navigation to succeed
because this generation
will fly the entire journey back,
stretching over almost 3,000 miles.
The monarchs prepare for their journey
in an unexpected way.
They stop producing eggs temporarily
and instead build muscle and store fat.
They grow larger,
can fly almost ten times as far,
and live up to eight times as long.
They’re a butterfly “super generation.”
Their compass heading
flips from north to south.
And off they go.
In about two months,
they arrive back
to their point of origin in Mexico
—a place neither they nor their parents,
grandparents,
nor perhaps even their great-grandparents
have ever seen.
Researchers hope that a better understanding
of the monarch butterfly
will help create
efficient, long-range, micro-air vehicles.
What do you think?
Did the monarch butterfly’s ability
to migrate long distances evolve?
Or was it designed?